PROJECT: DATA WAREHOUSE
# INTRODUCTION
A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database and want to move their processes and data onto the cloud. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.
As their data engineer, you are tasked with building an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, stages them in Redshift, and transforms data into a set of dimensional tables for their analytics team to continue finding insights in what songs their users are listening to. You'll be able to test your database and ETL pipeline by running queries given to you by the analytics team from Sparkify and compare your results with their expected results.


# PROJECT DES CRIPTION
To complete the project, you will need to load data from S3 to staging tables on Redshift and execute SQL statements that create the analytics tables from these staging tables.


# PROJECT DATASETS
You'll be working with two datasets that reside in S3. Here are the S3 links for each:
Song data: s3://udacity-dend/song_data
Log data: s3://udacity-dend/log_data
Log data json path: s3://udacity-dend/log_json_path.json


# SONG DATASET
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.
song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json
And below is an example of what a single song file, TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json, looks like.
{"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "


# LOG DATASET
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.
The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json



# DOCUMENT PROCESS

A. The purpose of Sparkify database  and its analytical goals
Sparkify data in scattered logs and meta data will not provide this easy and rapid quries. A simple and better way to represent data in a structured way is to model the data to allow for easy read and analysis is to used a relational database (postgreSQL) since the company is a startup and has less or no big data. This database will also allow for queries on the data and very fast.

B. Justification for  database schema design and ETL pipeline
The many focus of the analytics at Sparkify is to analyse what songs users are listening to. A star schema design model will provide this need for the analytics team. It allows for rapid queries on tables.

C. Examples of queries and results for song play analysis.



# PROJECT STEPS
Below are steps you can follow to complete each component of this project.
CREATE TABLE SCHEMAS
- Design schemas for your fact and dimension tables
- Write a SQL CREATE statement for each of these tables in sql_queries.py
- Complete the logic in create_tables.py to connect to the database and create these tables
- Write SQL DROP statements to drop tables in the beginning of create_tables.py if the tables already exist. This way, you can run create_tables.py whenever you want to reset your database and test your ETL pipeline.
- Launch a redshift cluster and create an IAM role that has read access to S3.
- Add redshift database and IAM role info to dwh.cfg.
- Test by running create_tables.py and checking the table schemas in your redshift database. You can use Query    Editor in the AWS Redshift console for this.
BUILD ETL PIPELINE
- Implement the logic in etl.py to load data from S3 to staging tables on Redshift.
- Implement the logic in etl.py to load data from staging tables to analytics tables on Redshift.
- Test by running etl.py after running create_tables.py and running the analytic queries on your Redshift database to compare your results with the expected results.
- Delete your redshift cluster when finished.



# RUNNING PROJECT
- Install and configure Python, Jupyter and Set up your Amazon Website Service (AWS) account with cluster set.
- Connect to AWS on Redshift database.
- Run 'create_tables.py' file and run 'etl.py' file
    Using !python create_tables.py and !python etl.py in the console
- Run queries on 'sql_queries.py'to get sample queries result for analysises
- Delete your redshift cluster when finished. 


# REFERENCE
https://www.xspdf.com/resolution/53435869.html